---
title: Structured Study to Improve Courses and Tools
linktitle: Structured Study to Improve Courses and Tools
toc: true
type: docs
date: "2021-01-15"
draft: false
menu:
  crit3:
    parent: Continuing Preparation and Study
    weight: 2

# Prev/next pager order (if `docs_section_pager` enabled in `params.toml`)
weight: 2
---

In addition to the [formal online coursework]({{< ref
"continuing_education.md">}}) discussed in a different section, I will also
provide evidence of self-guided structured study in two other areas: learning
to build client-side web applications using the Elm programming language and
a program of study on the management of unstructured data with Python.

In her letter of support, Mariah Quam--a data science alum--described my willingness to learn and present the nex

## Learning to Write Web Applications in Elm

{{< figure src="/img/elm.png" title="**Figure 1.** To facilitate the creation educational web application like the binomial simulation app, I completed a course of self-study to learn the Elm programming language.">}}


As detailed under [the section on criterion 2]({{<ref
"criterion2/software.md">}}), I have spent a considerable amount of time and
effort building educational web applications used on the statistics courses
at Winona State. Before I could create these applications, I need to learn
how to write a client-side application similar to those provided by
[StatKey](http://www.lock5stat.com/StatKey/).

The primary obstacle to learning to create such an application is learning
JavaScript, which I haven't had the motivation to learn. I prefer to dedicate
myself to learning programming languages that differ from the languages I
have already mastered, but JavaScript is pretty similar to Python. Also, I
look for languages that are easy to use right out of the box, with tools for
building, installing, and running an application without a lot of
configuration. Elm fits all of these requirements.

To learn to create applications in Elm, I started my course of self-study by
completing the [standard Elm tutorials](https://guide.elm-lang.org), but the
best way to learn a programming language is to build something. I spent a
significant part of the 2018 summer break creating the exact binomial
application (discussed in more detail in the section on [criterion 2]({{<ref
"criterion2/software.md">}}))). It is a testament to the simplicity of the
Elm language that I could go from knowing nothing to build a complete
application in one summer. Since then, I have continued to gain mastery in
Elm by, for example, learning to add animations to the binomial simulation
application.

## Study in Preparation for Two New DSCI Courses

My second course of self-guided study was conducted in preparation in
preparation for DSCI 330 and DSCI 430, two new electives that were developed
for the data science program. Each course required my to master new topics
and software tools as discussed below.

#### Mastering Two (and a Half New) Python Platforms**

In the creation of materials for DSCI 430, I needed to learn three Python
platforms used to manage structured data: dfply, a module for processing
table using pipes and data verbs; sqlalchemy, a Python library for working
with SQL databases using an object-relational model (ORM); and PySpark SQL,
which allows the management of structured data that is distributed over any
many machines. Furthermore, I also mastered a third

The act of working through problems in all three frameworks has also
reaffirmed that this is all of the same stuff, and a realization that
has had a profound effect on my teaching in all data science courses.

#### Learning to Process Audio and Image Data**

As suggested by the name, DSCI 330 The Management of Unstructured Data
focuses on the management of various forms of data that do not fit neatly in
tables. While I already has experience with two common examples of
unstructured data, text and web data, I did not have experience working with
audio, images, and video. Consequently, preparation for the course started
with becoming familiar with the theory and methods used when managing these
data formats. 

For example, while developing material about the spectrogram of an audio
signal, I studied about the theoretical foundations of the Fourier and
inverse Fourier transformations and pedagogical approaches to giving students
an understanding of these transformations. I now have a better understanding
of several other topics, including the application of various filters to
audio and images, using filters to search for a feature in an image, and
feature extraction for audio classification.
