---
title: Advising
linktitle: Advising
toc: true
type: docs
date: "2021-01-15"
draft: false
menu:
  crit4:
    parent: Contributions to Student Growth and Development 
    weight: 3

# Prev/next pager order (if `docs_section_pager` enabled in `params.toml`)
weight: 3
---

The final set of activities promoting student growth and development I
will highlight are all related to advising. This is not limited to
academic advising, but also includes serving as an adviser for capstone
experiences--be it research projects or internships.

###  Academic Advising

Over the last four and a half years, I now have advised 34 students with data
science majors or minors. Students in our department are initially assigned
an advisor in their first year, and I have twice taken on all incoming majors
for that academic year. Students then have the option of selecting their
advisor moving forward. While some of my more experienced colleagues have
likely advised more students over the same period, I believe that I have
completed a decent share of the overall workload. Additionally, while I have
many years of experience advising students, I still needed to go through the
process of learning the systems and advising nuisances at Winona State. and
going through two rounds of advising this year has helped.

### Supervising of Student-based Research 

Over the last few years, I had the opportunity to advise several students on
their capstone projects, each of which are summarized below.

**Investigating Python Using Housing Data.** Catherine Nead was interested in
a capstone project that involved working with Python, developed a project
that involved using Python to automate the acquisition and processing of data
from Zillow through the use of an API. The resulting data were used to build
and test predictive models for predicting a home sale price using information
from comparable houses. This was a novel project in several ways. First,
the data was returned as JSON, which required Catherine to learn about this
data type and the associated Python toolset. Second, the data not only
included information on each house of interest, but also data on comparable
houses, which required careful feature selection and aggregation of the
information. Finally, Catherine had no prior experience with Python.
Catherine presented her work as a poster at the Ramaley Research Celebration.

**Predicting Unemployment in Barcelona.** Jackie Sieve is a dual Spanish and
DSCI major and wanted to find a data science project related to her second
major. She studied unemployment in Barcelona during the 2008 recession by
building models to using several features to predict the unemployment numbers
for each neighborhood. Her resulting models did a fantastic job of predicting
unemployment, with the best models having an r-squared of around 99.7%.

**Data Verbs for SQL.** YingZhang (Daniel) Lew worked with me developing
Python tools that allow the application of data verbs to SQL databases in
Python. I went into more detail on these ideas in last yearâ€™s PDR. Daniel was
able to develop a large number of tools independently while learning about
important software engineering techniques and writing proper documentation,
continual development, and automated unit tests.

While it is too early to give details, I am currently supervising three more
student capstone research projects over this year.

### Supervising of Internships

I have also served as faculty supervisor for seven previous or on-going
internships. While advising an internship isn't as involved as advising research
projects, it does require ensuring that the internship meets the needs of
STAT/DSCI 488, obtaining self and supervisor assessments of performance, and
translating those assessments into a final grade. Based on my experiences
with the first few internships, I have improved the student experience by
helping formalizes the application and requirements as well as developing
Qualtrics surveys used for self and supervisor performance evaluations.